= LS4, a Large-Scale Simple Storage System

LS4 is a distributed storage system that can store large data like photos, music or movies.

[Scalability] Grows storage capacity and I/O throughput dynamically without any modification of applications.
[Availability] Prevents whole system falt from partial hardware crashes by failing-over within very small downtime.
[Versioning] Takes back old data by creation time or version name of the stored objects.
[Continuous snapshot] Supported based on time-based versioning.
[Geo-redundancy] Supports replication of objects across multiple datacenters.
[Direct data transfer] Reduces local network traffic and load of front-end servers by cooperating with proxy servers.
[Traffic offloading] Enhances performance of data servers by offloading traffics to native web servers.


== Data model

LS4 stores a set of objects identified by a key. Each object consists with data and attributes, and can have multiple versions.

    key                        object
                      data                  attributes
               +-----------------+---------------------------------+       ---+
  "image1" =>  |  "HTJ PNG ..."  |  { type:png, model:NEX-5 }      |--+       | each object can
               +-----------------+---------------------------------+  |--+    | have multiple
                 +-----------------+----------------------------------+  |    | versoins
                    +----------------+-----------------------------------+    |
                                                                           ---+
               +-----------------+---------------------------------+
    key    =>  |  bytes .......  |  { key:value, key:value, ... }  |--+
               +-----------------+---------------------------------+  |--+
                 +-----------------+----------------------------------+  |
                    +----------------+-----------------------------------+
  
    ...    =>  ...

For more details, see {LS4 Documents}[http://ls4.sourceforge.net/doc/].


== Quick Start

    $ gem install ls4
    $ ls4-standalone -s ./data -h 18080 &
    
    $ curl -X POST -d 'data=value1&attrs={"test":"attr"}' http://localhost:18080/data/key1
    
    $ curl -X GET http://localhost:18080/data/key1
    value1
    
    $ curl -X GET http://localhost:18080/attrs/key1
    {"test":"attr"}



Project web site::  http://ls4.sourceforge.net/
Documents:: http://ls4.sourceforge.net/doc/
Documents (Japanese):: http://ls4.sourceforge.net/doc/ja/
Source repository:: http://github.com/ls4
Author:: FURUHASHI Sadayuki
Copyright:: (c) 2010-2011 FURUHASHI Sadayuki
License:: AGPL

See also NOTICE[https://github.com/ls4/ls4/blob/master/NOTICE] file.

